Not sure where to start? 
Let us help. 
Welcome to SAS Skill Builder for Students! We’ve put together a quick guide and video tour 
to help you dive in, choose what to learn and easily navigate the platform.
I’m new to SAS software.                          
We offer cloud-based software options to learners for free! All you need is a SAS profile that uses an 
academic email address and an internet connection. Visit SAS Academic Software to learn more. 
Compare learning software options
If you’re looking for an easy way to build data and AI skills, look no further. Explore your software 
options and choose the best fit for what you want to learn. 
Video: Getting Started With SAS® Viya® Workbench for Learners
Video: Getting Started With SAS Viya for Learners
Video: Getting Started With SAS OnDemand for Academics
I’m not ready for certification preparation, but I’d like to 
take an introductory digital learning course.
Individual digital learning courses are a great place to start. Complete one or more of the digital 
learning courses below and earn a SAS Learn badge to highlight your new SAS skill on social media. 
Interested in data visualization?
SAS Visual Analytics 1 for SAS Viya
Perform data discovery and analysis to create interactive reports.
How about coding? 
SAS Programming 1
Learn how to access, prepare and explore data, export results and use SQL. 
Need a refresher in analytical methods?
Statistics 1 
Get insight in ANOVA, regression and other common methods.
I am interested in earning SAS credentials. 
Within SAS Skill Builder for Students, earn digital credentials to showcase your skills and 
stand out. Learn badges recognize course completion, Knowledge badges demonstrate domain 
understanding, and Certification badges show applied subject-matter expertise. 
Interested in certification? SAS Skill Builder has everything you need to prepare! Explore 
pathways with required courses, study guides and practice exams. Discounted exam vouchers 
are also available in SAS Skill Builder for Students.
Visual Business Analytics 
Ideal if you prefer point-and-click tools over coding, want to create interactive dashboards, 
and aspire to analyze and visualize data through design-driven reports.
Programming Using SAS 9.4
Great for those who prefer coding to point-and-click tools and want to combine data sets, 
create summary reports, and manipulate and transform data.
I’m not ready to jump into SAS software, but I want 
to learn more about how to use data. 
Data Literacy Essentials 
Learn more about what it means to be data literate and how to engage with data 
in meaningful ways.
Responsible Innovation and Trustworthy AI
Empower yourself with knowledge from this course to find ways to design, develop 
and use machine learning and AI systems more responsibly.
I’d like to connect with folks who can help me learn.
Joining SAS Support Communities is a must for those new to SAS. You’ll find peer-to-peer 
support about programming and deployment issues, plus tips and successes! Be sure to visit 
the FAQ for students and independent learners after you join.
Copyright © 2025, SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved. W451552.0725
